- In this lesson, you're gonna learn how to create effective prompts. A good prompt follows a simple
framework, task, context, references, evaluate, and iterate. If you ever forget a step, just remember thoughtfully, create, really, excellent, inputs. First is task. You need to describe the task
you want the generative AI tool to help you with. Now, this should include a persona and a format preference, so
that the task is specific. Persona refers to what expertise you want the
gen AI tool to draw from. You can ask the tool to
take on a persona like a professional speech writer or a marketing executive
with 15 years of experience. Or you can ask it to create
output for a specific audience, a customer, or even your manager. You can be as detailed as you'd
like when adding a persona to your task. Format refers
to how you want the output to appear, whether that's a bulleted list, short sentences, or a table. So there you have it task. Next, you'll include context or the necessary details to
help the gen AI tool understand what you need from it. This is the difference between writing. Give me some ideas for a
birthday present under $30 and give me five ideas
for a birthday present. My budget is $30. The gift is for a 29-year-old
who loves winter sports and has recently switched
from snowboarding to skiing. Sometimes you'll add
references for the gen AI tool to use while creating its output. You just asked a gen AI
tool to give you ideas for a birthday present, right? Well, if you add examples of birthday presents you've
given in the past as references, the gen AI tool can give
you a more useful output. There aren't always going
to be clear references of what you need, especially if
you're working on something more abstract or searching
for ideas and inspiration. Once you have your output,
it's time to evaluate. Ask yourself if the input you provided gave you the output you needed. This leads us to the final
part of the framework. Iterate. If you evaluate your output and determine that you're
not getting what you need, you can try again by
adding more information or tweaking your prompt. And this is a key part
of prompting effectively, and we'll explore it in
depth later on in the course. One more note on the framework. There are plenty of ways to
construct an effective prompt. The order of how you construct
a prompt is less important than this substance of the prompt itself. As long as you're thoughtfully
creating, really, excellent inputs, your outputs should be great.