- Hi, I am Timothy, a Director of Developer Relations at Google. For the last 14 years, I've
been helping developers and Google work better together. I've recently been working
a lot more with gen AI to do things like technical
writing and generating code. I've also been helping more
developers integrate gen AI into their apps. Prompting is a new skill
that a lot of us are learning and trying to get better at. Myself included. Now my
first experience using gen AI that was transformative was
for a pretty simple task. I needed to quickly collect
everyone's availability for an important team meeting. I asked over chat and everyone
responded in a different format as people are likely to do, and it was a lot to track. But with the help of gen AI, I was able to organize everyone's
availability into a table and then transposed it so
the table was sorted by date, not by chat message. A task that would've taken forever, manually only took me a
few minutes with gen AI, and that was my breakthrough
moment using gen AI in my everyday tasks to turn things that used to be a headache into
something simple and easy. And that's what this course
is about, using gen AI to help you get your job done. So what is prompting anyway? Put simply prompting is the process of providing specific
instructions to a gen AI tool to receive new information or to achieve a desired outcome on a task. Those instructions are called prompts. When we write a prompt for a gen AI tool, we're giving it a series of inputs and telling it what we
would like it to generate. Some gen AI tools can generate text or images while others generate
video, audio, or even code. Prompting is both
an art and a science. To get the best results, we need to be precise in defining what we need. Now, this is similar to the way
you would help your teammate get started on a new project. Providing context and setting parameters
will get you the best output from gen AI. The first thing you'll learn
is the prompting framework. It's a formula for writing great prompts. You'll use this framework
throughout the course, and after that, it's all about putting prompts to use on specific tasks
that can save you time in your job. You'll use
gen AI to brainstorm ideas, develop plans and draft
emails for different audiences. We'll teach you how to
summarize meeting notes, assign action items and more. We'll also teach you how to analyze data and spreadsheets with gen AI. You'll write prompts
that can help you find insights buried in data. You'll then use gen AI to turn
those insights into visuals, and eventually, turn it
all into a slide deck with talking points for a presentation. Next, you'll learn advanced
prompting techniques to help you untangle complex tasks. For example, you'll learn
how to create prompts that can help make long-term
complicated projects easier to plan and execute. You'll also learn how to design a prompt to create your own personalized AI agent to do things like practice
before an interview or prepare for difficult
work conversations. And finally, you'll learn
how to use gen AI responsibly, including guidelines
for using it in your job and on your team. This is crucial. Gen AI
tools help you with the work that you do, but they don't do it for you. Anyone using gen AI should
always be evaluating and fact-checking outputs. There are a lot of gen AI tools out there and in this course. We're
gonna demonstrate how to prompt using Gemini and other Google AI tools like
Gemini for Google Workspace and Google AI Studio. But all of the techniques and best practices you'll
learn in this course can be applied to other gen AI tools like ChatGPT, Copilot, or Claude. Last thing, we designed this
course to give you skills that you can use at work right away. So all of these lessons and techniques you're gonna
learn are rooted in real world scenarios. You should experiment and
play around to figure out what works best for you. And as you go through
this course, feel free to pause the video and test what you just learned with something you're
working on right now. Now let's get started
with our first prompts.