- There are gonna be times
when your prompt simply isn't giving you what you want, but instead of scrapping all your work and starting again from zero, think about how you can Always Be
Iterating or ABI to try and mold the outputs into
something more useful. By the end of this video, you'll learn four helpful
iteration methods. The first method is to revisit
the prompting framework and make sure you're providing
enough specificity in your task, context, and references. For example, if you wrote,
give me five Blog Post Ideas. A generative AI tool might
respond better if you adjusted your prompt to include
the persona and format. For example, you are an
expert on sports nutrition. Provide five blog posts, headlines that summarize the biggest
trends happening in the industry for an audience of
physical therapists working with professional basketball players. The second method is to
separate your prompt into shorter sentences. Start by taking a long input and breaking it down into smaller tasks. This is the long input:
Summarize the key data points and information in this report. Then create visual graphs from the data and shorten the key
information into bullets. You can break this up
into shorter sentences and input them as separate prompts. You'll input each prompt
receive an output, and then follow up with
a new prompt until all of your tasks have been submitted. First, summarize the key data points and information in this report. Then follow that up with
create visual graphs with the data you summarized, and finally, shorten
the key information you summarized into bullets. Sometimes shorter sentences
can yield more precise results because the gen AI tool can
parse one small task at a time instead of identifying the relationships between all of them at once. You can also try using different phrasing or switching to an analogous
task, which is a task that is very similar to the
one you're trying to complete, but different enough to
trigger a new response. For example, if you're
asking a gen AI tool to help write a marketing
plan for a product or service, you could instead
ask it to write a story about how this product fits into the lives of our target customer demographic. By moving from write a
marketing plan to write a story, you're asking the gen AI tool to approach the task differently, which might lead you
closer to a useful output. Finally, introducing constraints
might also help focus a gen AI tools outputs. Maybe you wanna make a playlist
for an upcoming road trip and you're trying to figure out what artists you want to include. You've added some context
about your favorite genre, but the results are kind of boring. You've heard all these songs
a million times before. To get better output and something more unexpected, you could start adding
constraints like specifying you only want artists
from a certain region or artists that have released
music in the last five years. Adding constraints to your
prompt will help the gen AI tool narrow down its outputs and give you something
more helpful or unique. The better you can evaluate and iterate, the better
your output will be.